Created Metaquantome Function and Taxonomy GTN (#2075)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/proteomics/tutorials/metaquantome-function/tutorial.md

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on

title: "metaQuantome 2: Function"
zenodo_link: "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4110725"
questions:
 - "How do I look at differentially expressed proteins?"
 - "How do I get top 5 or 10 function present in the sample?"
 - "How can I visualize my results?"
objectives:
  - "A functional and quantitational analysis of metaproteomic mass spectrometry data."
time_estimation: "1h"
key_points:
  - "Perform quantititative and statistical analysis of metaproteomics data to study differentially expressed proteins and their functions."
contributors:
  - subinamehta
  - timothygriffin
  - pratikdjagtap
  - emmaleith
  - mariecrane
  - pravs3683

follow_up_training:

    -
        type: "internal"
        topic_name: proteomics
        tutorials:
            - metaproteomics
            
        
        type: "internal"
        topic_name: proteomics
        tutorials:
            - metaquantome-taxonomy
            
requirements:

   -
   
        type: "internal"
        topic_name: proteomics
        tutorials:
           - metaquantome-data-creation
            

---

# Introduction
{:.no_toc}

> metaQuantome {% cite Easterly2019 %} software suite was developed by the {% cite Galaxy-P %} for quantitative and statistical analysis of metaproteomics data. For taxonomic and functional expression analysis within the microbial community, metaQuantome leverages peptide-level quantitative information to generate visual outputs for data interpretation. It also generates outputs that help in understanding the taxonomic contribution to a selected function as well as functions expressed by selected taxonomic group. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metaQuantome software suite ({% cite Easterly2019 %}) was developed by the {% cite Galaxy-P %} for quantitative and statistical analysis of metaproteomics data. For taxonomic and functional expression analysis within the microbial community, metaQuantome leverages peptide-level quantitative information to generate visual outputs for data interpretation. It also generates outputs that help in understanding the taxonomic contribution to a selected function as well as functions expressed by selected taxonomic group. 
```

> In this tutorial, we will learn specifically about the metaQuantome Function workflow. In particular, we will learn about how peptide-level quantitation and associated functional information can be used to generate bar plots (for functional information such as molecular function, cellular components and biological processes), volcano plots (to detect differentially expressed function) and heatmap cluster analysis. To demonstrate the use of this workflow, we have used a thermophilic biogas reactor dataset wherein municipal food waste and manure is digested to generate methane gas {% cite Delogu2020 %}. After one round in the reactor, the microbial community was simplified and enriched via serial dilution. This inoculum was then transferred to a solution of cellulose from Norwegian Spruce and incubated at 65°C. Triplicate samples were taken in a time series from 0 to 43 hours after inoculation and mass spectrometry data was acquired on a Q-Exactive (Thermo) mass spectrometer. For this training, we have chosen three time points (8 hours, 18 hours and 33 hours) from this dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will learn specifically about the metaQuantome Function workflow. In particular, we will learn about how peptide-level quantitation and associated functional information can be used to generate bar plots (for functional information such as molecular function, cellular components and biological processes), volcano plots (to detect differentially expressed function) and heatmap cluster analysis. To demonstrate the use of this workflow, we have used a thermophilic biogas reactor dataset wherein municipal food waste and manure is digested to generate methane gas ({% cite Delogu2020 %}). After one round in the reactor, the microbial community was simplified and enriched via serial dilution. This inoculum was then transferred to a solution of cellulose from Norwegian Spruce and incubated at 65°C. Triplicate samples were taken in a time series from 0 to 43 hours after inoculation and mass spectrometry data was acquired on a Q-Exactive (Thermo) mass spectrometer. For this training, we have chosen three time points (8 hours, 18 hours and 33 hours) from this dataset.
```

> ![MetaQuantome-function-workflow](../../images/mQ-function-workflow.jpg){: width="100%"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![MetaQuantome-function-workflow](../../images/mQ-function-workflow.jpg "MetaQuantome workflow showing steps to generate visualisations and analysis results from input data."){: width="100%"}
```

Reviewer: I suggested some text here, but please feel free to update to make it better. The suggestion is to add a title to the figure.

> ### Agenda
>
> In this tutorial, we will cover:
>
> 1. TOC
> {:toc}
>
{: .agenda}

# **Pretreatments**

> The first step in a tutorial is to get the data from the zenodo link provided and making sure that it is in the correct format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step in this tutorial is to get the data from the Zenodo link provided and make sure that it is in the correct format.
```

## *Get data*

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Data upload
>
> 1. Create a new history for this tutorial and give it a meaningful name
>
>    {% include snippets/create_new_history.md %}
>    {% include snippets/rename_history.md %}
>

> > 2. Import the files: a Functional File, an Intensity file from [Zenodo]({{ page.zenodo_link }})
> >    or from the shared data library (`GTN - Material` -> `{{ page.topic_name }}` -> `{{ page.title }}`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 2. Import the files from [Zenodo]({{ page.zenodo_link }}): a Functional File and an Intensity file
```

>
>    ```
>    https://zenodo.org/record/4110725/files/Function-File.tabular
>    https://zenodo.org/record/4110725/files/Intensity-File.tabular
>
>    ```
>    {% include snippets/import_via_link.md %}

> >    {% include snippets/import_from_data_library.md %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>    Alternatively, import the files from the shared data library (`GTN - Material` -> `{{ page.topic_name }}` -> `{{ page.title }}`)

>    {% include snippets/import_from_data_library.md %}
```

>
>

> > 3. Check that the datatype ( Make sure they are in the correct formats).
> >  Functional File (format=`tabular`), an Intensity file (format=`tabular`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 3. Check that the files are the correct datatypes. The Functional File should be datatype `tabular` and the Intensity File should also be datatype `tabular`.
```

>

> >    {% include snippets/change_datatype.md datatype="datatypes" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>    {% include snippets/change_datatype.md datatype="tabular" %}
```

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Run metaQuantome databases
>
> 1. {% tool [metaQuantome: databases](https://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/galaxyp/metaquantome_db/7c45aa1c9464) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-select %} *"Databases to Download"*: `Select All` (NCBI Taxonomy Database, Gene Ontology Database and Enzyme Commission (EC) database)
>
>
>    > ### {% icon comment %} Comment
>    >
>    > metaQuantome uses freely available bioinformatic databases to expand your set of direct annotations. 
>    > 
>    > 
>    > The databases are:
>    > 
>    > 1. NCBI taxonomy database. consists of a list of all currently identified taxa and the relationships between them.
>    > 
>    > 2. Gene Ontology (GO) term database. metaQuantome uses the go-basic.obo file and the metagenomics slim GO (subset of the full GO). More details are 
>    > available at http://geneontology.org/docs/download-ontology/
>    > 
>    > 3. ENZYME database with Enzyme Classification (EC) numbers. This database classifies enzymes and organizes the relationships between them.
>    > 
>    {: .comment}
>
{: .hands_on}

> ### {% icon question %} Questions
>

> > 1. Why is it necessary to download metaQuanome databases?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 1. Why is it necessary to download metaQuantome databases?
```

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Create an experimental Design file for sorting samples
>
> 1. {% tool [metaQuantome: create samples file](https://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/galaxyp/metaquantome_sample/49a957fb353a) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-select %} *"Sample file creation method"*: `Manually specify experimental conditions and samples`
>    - In *"Insert Samples"*:
>        - *"1.Samples"*: 
>            - *"Group Name"*: `T2`
>               - *"Column"*: `T2_A1,T2_B1`
>        - *"2.Samples"*: 
>            - *"Group Name"*: `T4`
>               - *"Column"*: `T4A_1,T4B_1`
>        - *"3.Samples"*: 
>            - *"Group Name"*: `T7`
>               - *"Column"*: `T7A_1,T7B_1`
>     
>
{: .hands_on}

# **Run metaQuantome**

## *metaQuantome: expand*

The expand module is the first analysis step in the metaQuantome analysis workflow, and can be run to analyze differently expressed functions in the samples.
In function mode, the following information is required apart from metaQuantome databases and samples file:

> - The name of the peptide column in the functional annotation file (` peptide`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The name of the peptide column in the functional annotation file (`peptide`)
```

> - The name of the functional annotation column in the functional annotation file.(`go_term`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The name of the functional annotation column in the functional annotation file (`go_term`)
```

>
>
> 2. **Rename** {% icon galaxy-pencil %} the output file to `metaQuantome:stat`.
>
>    > ### {% icon comment %} Comment
>    >
>    > In this tutorial, we have used the sample T2 as the control group for fold change evaluation. The users have the ability to choose their own control sample group. The initial version of the metaQuantome stat module could only process 2 conditions at a time. However, the new update of metaQuantome has the ability to perform statistical analysis across multiple conditions.
>    {: .comment}
>
{: .hands_on}

# **Visualize your Data**

The  outputs of the visualization module of metaQuantome are high-quality, publication-ready visualizations: barplots for the analysis of a single sample or experimental condition and differential abundance analysis, volcano plots, heatmaps, and principal components analysis for comparisons between two or more experimental conditions. 
Here were are showing 2 visualizations: **Barplot and Volcano Plot**. The Heatmap and PCA plot for multiple conditions are under development.
There are two outputs of the visualization tool : an **HTML file (figure) and a tabular output containing the plot data**.

> ## *metaQuantome: visualize* : Bar Chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## *metaQuantome: visualize* Bar Chart
```

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Bar chart visualization of Functions in T2 sample.
>
> 1. {% tool [metaQuantome: visualize](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/galaxyp/metaquantome_viz/metaquantome_viz/2.0.0-0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Tabular file from metaQuantome stats or metaQuantome filter"*: `metaQuantome:stat` (output of **metaQuantome: stat** {% icon tool %})
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Samples file"*: `metaQuantome:create samples_file` (output of **metaQuantome: stat** {% icon tool %})
>    - *"Mode"*: `Functional analysis`
>        - *"Plot type"*: `Bar Chart (bar)`
>            - *"Mean intensity column name"*: `T2_mean`
>            - *"GO category to restrict to"*: `Molecular Function`
>            - *"Color for the bar fill"*: `Orange`
>
>    > ### {% icon comment %} Comment
>    > The user has a choice to run Bar plot for T2, T4 and T7 to know the top 5 or 10 most differently expressed functions. Here we have restricted the GO category to Molecular Function but the user can choose Biological Processes or Cellular component as their category.
>    > 
>    {: .comment}
>
{: .hands_on}

> ![T2_MF](../../images/T2-mf.png){: width="85%"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![T2_MF](../../images/T2-mf.png "Top five differentially expressed Molecular Function GO terms."){: width="85%"}
```

Reviewer: I'm actually a bit confused here about what is being compared. In the last comment, it says the T2 sample is being used as the control group. If so, then which two samples are being compared in this plot showing differential expression? Sample T2 versus... ?

>
> > ### {% icon solution %} Solution
> >
> > 1. Yes, the available colors are blue, orange, yellow, violet, black and red.
> > 2. Yes, the user can choose their own number, however, the larger the display numbers are the dimensions of the image has to be adjusted accordingly.
> >
> {: .solution}
>
{: .question}

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Bar chart visualization of Functions in T4 sample.
>
> 1. {% tool [metaQuantome: visualize](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/galaxyp/metaquantome_viz/metaquantome_viz/2.0.0-0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Tabular file from metaQuantome stats or metaQuantome filter"*: `metaQuantome:stat` (output of **metaQuantome: stat** {% icon tool %})
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Samples file"*: `metaQuantome:create samples_file` (output of **metaQuantome: create samples file** {% icon tool %})
>    - *"Mode"*: `Functional analysis`
>        - *"Plot type"*: `Bar Chart (bar)`
>            - *"Mean intensity column name"*: `T4_mean`
>            - *"GO category to restrict to"*: `Molecular Function`
>            - *"Color for the bar fill"*: `Orange`
> 
{: .hands_on}

> ![T4_MF](../../images/T4-mf.png){: width="85%"}

Reviewer: Please add a figure title here as for previous graphs.

> > ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Bar chart visualization of Functions in T4 sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Bar chart visualization of Functions in T7 sample.
```

>
> 1. {% tool [metaQuantome: visualize](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/galaxyp/metaquantome_viz/metaquantome_viz/2.0.0-0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Tabular file from metaQuantome stats or metaQuantome filter"*: `metaQuantome:stat` (output of **metaQuantome: stat** {% icon tool %})
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Samples file"*: `metaQuantome:create samples_file` (output of **metaQuantome: create samples file** {% icon tool %})
>    - *"Mode"*: `Functional analysis`
>        - *"Plot type"*: `Bar Chart (bar)`
>            - *"Mean intensity column name"*: `T7_mean`
>            - *"GO category to restrict to"*: `Molecular Function`
>            - *"Color for the bar fill"*: `Orange`
>
> 
{: .hands_on}

> ![T7_MF](../../images/T7-mf.png){: width="85%"}

Reviewer: Please add a figure title here as for previous graphs.

> ## *metaQuantome: visualize* for Volcano Plots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## *metaQuantome: visualize* Volcano Plots
```

>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Samples file"*: `metaQuantome:create samples_file` (output of **metaQuantome: create samples file** {% icon tool %})
>    - *"Mode"*: `Functional analysis`
>        - *"Plot type"*: `Volcano Plot (volcano)`
>            - *"Name of the fold change column in the stat dataframe"*: `log2fc_T7_over_T2`
>            - *"Name of the Corrected p-value column in the stat dataframe"*: `corrected_p_T7_over_T2`
>            - *"Name of the annotation column"*: `id`
>        - {% icon param-select %} *"Flip the fold change (i.e., multiply log fold change by -1)"*: `No`
>        - {% icon param-select %} *"Make one plot for each of BiologicalProcess, CellularComponent, and MolecularFunction GO term categories"*: `Yes`
>
>    > ### {% icon comment %} Comment
>    >
>    > Here, we show metaQuantome's Functional differential abundance volcano plot. The user may select the significance threshold (0.05 by default), and terms with statistically significant fold changes are colored green and labeled. However, we can currently only compare two conditions at a time. Here we have compared T7 and T2 time points. 
>    {: .comment}
>
{: .hands_on}

> ![T2-T7-volcano](../../images/T2-T7-volcano.png){: width="100%"}

Reviewer: Please add a figure title here as for previous graphs.

>
{: .question}

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Volcano Plot visualization of the data T4 and T2.
>
> 1. {% tool [metaQuantome: visualize](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/galaxyp/metaquantome_viz/metaquantome_viz/2.0.0-0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Tabular file from metaQuantome stats or metaQuantome filter"*: `metaQuantome:stat` (output of **metaQuantome: stat** {% icon tool %})
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Samples file"*: `metaQuantome:create samples_file` (output of **metaQuantome: create samples file** {% icon tool %})
>    - *"Mode"*: `Functional analysis`
>        - *"Plot type"*: `Volcano Plot (volcano)`
>            - *"Name of the fold change column in the stat dataframe"*: `log2fc_T4_over_T2`
>            - *"Name of the Corrected p-value column in the stat dataframe"*: `corrected_p_T4_over_T2`
>            - *"Name of the annotation column"*: `id`
>        - {% icon param-select %} *"Flip the fold change (i.e., multiply log fold change by -1)"*: `No`
>        - {% icon param-select %} *"Make one plot for each of BiologicalProcess, CellularComponent, and MolecularFunction GO term categories"*: `Yes`
>
{: .hands_on}

> ![T2-T4-volcano](../../images/T2-T4-volcano.png){: width="100%"}

Reviewer: Please add a figure title here as for previous graphs.

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on

title: "metaQuantome 2: Function"
zenodo_link: "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4110725"
questions:
 - "How do I look at differentially expressed proteins?"
 - "How do I get top 5 or 10 function present in the sample?"
 - "How can I visualize my results?"
objectives:
  - "A functional and quantitational analysis of metaproteomic mass spectrometry data."
time_estimation: "1h"
key_points:

>   - "Perform quantititative and statistical analysis of metaproteomics data to study differentially expressed proteins and their functions."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - "Perform quantitative and statistical analysis of metaproteomics data to study differentially expressed proteins and their functions."
```

![MetaQuantome-function-workflow](../../images/mQ-function-workflow.jpg "MetaQuantome workflow showing steps to generate visualisations and analysis results from input data."){: width="100%"}

> ### Agenda
>
> In this tutorial, we will cover:
>
> 1. TOC
> {:toc}
>
{: .agenda}

# **Pretreatments**

The first step in this tutorial is to get the data from the Zenodo link provided and make sure that it is in the correct format.

## *Get data*

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Data upload
>
> 1. Create a new history for this tutorial and give it a meaningful name
>
>    {% include snippets/create_new_history.md %}
>    {% include snippets/rename_history.md %}
>
> 2. Import the files from [Zenodo]({{ page.zenodo_link }}): a Functional File and an Intensity file.
>  
>
>    ```
>    https://zenodo.org/record/4110725/files/Function-File.tabular
>    https://zenodo.org/record/4110725/files/Intensity-File.tabular
>
>    ```

> >    {% include snippets/import_via_link.md %}
> >    Alternatively, import the files from the shared data library (`GTN - Material` -> `{{ page.topic_name }}` -> `{{ page.title }}`)
> >
> >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>    {% include snippets/import_via_link.md %}
>
>    Alternatively, import the files from the shared data library (`GTN - Material` -> `{{ page.topic_name }}` -> `{{ page.title }}`)
>
>    {% include snippets/import_from_data_library.md %}
>
>
```

Reviewer: You can use the `{% include snippets/import_from_data_library.md %}` snippet here with instructions for loading files from a shared data libray.

## *metaQuantome: visualize* Bar Chart

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Bar chart visualization of Functions in T2 sample.
>
> 1. {% tool [metaQuantome: visualize](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/galaxyp/metaquantome_viz/metaquantome_viz/2.0.0-0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Tabular file from metaQuantome stats or metaQuantome filter"*: `metaQuantome:stat` (output of **metaQuantome: stat** {% icon tool %})
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Samples file"*: `metaQuantome:create samples_file` (output of **metaQuantome: stat** {% icon tool %})
>    - *"Mode"*: `Functional analysis`
>        - *"Plot type"*: `Bar Chart (bar)`
>            - *"Mean intensity column name"*: `T2_mean`
>            - *"GO category to restrict to"*: `Molecular Function`
>            - *"Color for the bar fill"*: `Orange`
>
>    > ### {% icon comment %} Comment
>    > The user has a choice to run Bar plot for T2, T4 and T7 to know the top 5 or 10 most differently expressed functions. Here we have restricted the GO category to Molecular Function but the user can choose Biological Processes or Cellular component as their category.
>    > 
>    {: .comment}
>
{: .hands_on}

> ![picture \label{fig1}](figure1.png)

Reviewer: This figure doesn't exist (it's causing the Travis test to fail). Either remove this line or add the image indicated.

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on

title: metaQuantome-Function
zenodo_link: "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4110725"
questions:
 - "How do I look at differentially expressed proteins?"
 - "How do I get top 5 or 10 function present in the sample?"
 - "How can I visualize my results?"
objectives:
  - "A functional and quantitational analysis of metaproteomic mass spectrometry data."
time_estimation: "1h"
key_points:
  - "With function and Quantitation inputs perform statistical analysis"
contributors:
  - subinamehta
  - timothygriffin
  - pratikdjagtap
  - emmaleith
  - mariecrane
  - pravs3683

follow_up_training:

    -
        type: "internal"
        topic_name: proteomics
        tutorials:
            - metaproteomics
            
        type: "internal"
        topic_name: proteomics
        tutorials:

>             - metaquantome-data-creation

Reviewer 2: if the data creation tutorial belongs before this one, you can define it as a prerequisite instead of follow-up
this follows the same structure, just under `requirements` instead of `follow_up_training` in the metadata:
 
```
requirements:
  -
    type: "internal"
    topic_name: proteomics
    tutorials:
      - metaquantome-data-creation
```

Author: Fixed that!

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on

title: "metaQuantome 2: Function"
zenodo_link: "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4110725"
questions:
 - "How do I look at differentially expressed proteins?"
 - "How do I get top 5 or 10 function present in the sample?"
 - "How can I visualize my results?"
objectives:
  - "A functional and quantitational analysis of metaproteomic mass spectrometry data."
time_estimation: "1h"
key_points:

>   - "With function and Quantitation inputs perform statistical analysis"

Reviewer 2: can you make the keypoints more of a take-home message? So less of a "this is what we did", and more of a "this is an important conclusion or from this tutorial"

contributors:
  - subinamehta
  - timothygriffin
  - pratikdjagtap
  - emmaleith
  - mariecrane
  - pravs3683

follow_up_training:

    -
        type: "internal"
        topic_name: proteomics
        tutorials:
            - metaproteomics
            
        
        type: "internal"
        topic_name: proteomics
        tutorials:
            - metaquantome-taxonomy
            
requirements:

   -
   
        type: "internal"
        topic_name: proteomics
        tutorials:
           - metaquantome-data-creation
            

---

# Introduction
{:.no_toc}

metaQuantome {% cite Easterly2019 %} software suite was developed by the {% cite Galaxy-P %} for quantitative and statistical analysis of metaproteomics data. For taxonomic and functional expression analysis within the microbial community, metaQuantome leverages peptide-level quantitative information to generate visual outputs for data interpretation. It also generates outputs that help in understanding the taxonomic contribution to a selected function as well as functions expressed by selected taxonomic group. 

> In this tutorial, we will learn specifically about the metaQuantome Function workflow. In particular, we will learn about how peptide-level quantitation and associated functional information can be used to generate bar plots (for functional information such as molecular function, cellular components and biological processes), volcano plots (to detect differentially expressed function) and heatmap cluster analysis. To demonstrate the use of this workflow, we have used a thermophilic biogas reactor dataset wherein municipal food waste and manure is digested to generate methane gas (% cite Delogu2020 %)). After one round in the reactor, the microbial community was simplified and enriched via serial dilution. This inoculum was then transferred to a solution of cellulose from Norwegian Spruce and incubated at 65°C. Triplicate samples were taken in a time series from 0 to 43 hours after inoculation and mass spectrometry data was acquired on a Q-Exactive (Thermo) mass spectrometer. For this training, we have chosen three time points (8 hours, 18 hours and 33 hours) from this dataset.

Reviewer 2: the citation (Delogu2020) uses parentheses instead of curly braces:

```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will learn specifically about the metaQuantome Function workflow. In particular, we will learn about how peptide-level quantitation and associated functional information can be used to generate bar plots (for functional information such as molecular function, cellular components and biological processes), volcano plots (to detect differentially expressed function) and heatmap cluster analysis. To demonstrate the use of this workflow, we have used a thermophilic biogas reactor dataset wherein municipal food waste and manure is digested to generate methane gas {% cite Delogu2020 %}). After one round in the reactor, the microbial community was simplified and enriched via serial dilution. This inoculum was then transferred to a solution of cellulose from Norwegian Spruce and incubated at 65°C. Triplicate samples were taken in a time series from 0 to 43 hours after inoculation and mass spectrometry data was acquired on a Q-Exactive (Thermo) mass spectrometer. For this training, we have chosen three time points (8 hours, 18 hours and 33 hours) from this dataset.
```

>
{: .hands_on}

# **Download metaQuantome Databases**

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Run metaQuantome databases
>
> 1. {% tool [metaQuantome: databases](https://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/view/galaxyp/metaquantome_db/7c45aa1c9464) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-select %} *"Databases to Download"*: `Select All` (NCBI Taxonomy Database, Gene Ontology Database and Enzyme Commission (EC) database)
>
> 2. Execute.
>
>    > ### {% icon comment %} Comment
>    >
>    > metaQuantome uses freely available bioinformatic databases to expand your set of direct annotations. 
>    > 
>    > 
>    > The databases are:
>    > 
>    > 1. NCBI taxonomy database. consists of a list of all currently identified taxa and the relationships between them.
>    > 
>    > 2. Gene Ontology (GO) term database. metaQuantome uses the go-basic.obo file and the metagenomics slim GO (subset of the full GO). More details are 
>    > available at http://geneontology.org/docs/download-ontology/
>    > 
>    > 3. ENZYME database with Enzyme Classification (EC) numbers. This database classifies enzymes and organizes the relationships between them.
>    > 
>    {: .comment}
>
{: .hands_on}

> ![MetaQuantome:databases](../../images/mq-db.png){: width="100%"}

Reviewer 2: please remove all screenshots of tool forms. All information to run the tools should be in the hands-on box

- The name of the peptide column in the functional annotation file (` peptide`)
- The name of the functional annotation column in the functional annotation file.(`go_term`)
- The name of the peptide column in the Intensity file (`peptide`)

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Run metaQuantome expand
>
> 1. {% tool [metaQuantome: expand](toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repos/galaxyp/metaquantome_expand/metaquantome_expand/2.0.0-0) %} with the following parameters:
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Database Archive File"*: `metaQuantome databases` (output of **metaQuantome: database** {% icon tool %})
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Samples file"*: `metaQuantome: create samples_file` (output of **metaQuantome: create samples file** {% icon tool %})
>    - *"Mode"*: `Functional analysis`
>        - {% icon param-file %} *"Functional file"*: `Function File` (Input dataset)
>        - *"Functional file: peptide column name"*: `peptide`
>        - *"Ontology"*: `Gene Ontology (GO terms)`
>        - *"Functional column name"*: `go_term`
>    - {% icon param-file %} *"Intensity file"*: `Intensity File` (Input dataset)
>        - *"Intensity file: peptide column name"*: `peptide`
> 2. Execute.
>

> > 3. Rename as "metaQuantome expand".

Reviewer 2: minor point, but for all these rename steps, we can add the pencil icon as a reminder to users how to do this:

```suggestion
> 3. **Rename** {% icon galaxy-pencil %} the output file to `metaQuantome expand`.
```
